docs/specs/server.md, before:

# Server Specification

Source: `src/server.js` -- class `ClaudeCodeWebServer`

## Constructor

```js
new ClaudeCodeWebServer(options)
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `port` | number | `7777` | HTTP/HTTPS listen port |
| `auth` | string | `undefined` | Bearer token for authentication; when set, all HTTP and WebSocket requests must provide it |
| `noAuth` | boolean | `false` | Disable authentication entirely (`--disable-auth`) |
| `dev` | boolean | `false` | Enable verbose console logging |
| `https` | boolean | `false` | Start an HTTPS server instead of HTTP |
| `cert` | string | -- | Path to PEM certificate file (required when `https` is true) |
| `key` | string | -- | Path to PEM private key file (required when `https` is true) |
| `folderMode` | boolean | `true` | Enable folder-selection UI (defaults to true; always enabled in current CLI) |
| `sessionHours` | number | `5` | Session window duration in hours; also read from `CLAUDE_SESSION_HOURS` env |
| `plan` | string | `'max20'` | Subscription plan type (`pro`, `max5`, `max20`, `custom`); also read from `CLAUDE_PLAN` env |
| `customCostLimit` | number | `50.00` | Dollar cost limit for custom plans; also read from `CLAUDE_COST_LIMIT` env |
| `claudeAlias` | string | `'Claude'` | UI display name for Claude agent; also read from `CLAUDE_ALIAS` env |
| `codexAlias` | string | `'Codex'` | UI display name for Codex agent; also read from `CODEX_ALIAS` env |
| `agentAlias` | string | `'Cursor'` | UI display name for the third agent; also read from `AGENT_ALIAS` env |

### Internal State

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `claudeSessions` | `Map<string, Session>` | All sessions keyed by UUID |
| `webSocketConnections` | `Map<string, WsInfo>` | Active WebSocket connections keyed by UUID |
| `claudeBridge` | `ClaudeBridge` | Bridge instance managing Claude CLI processes |
| `codexBridge` | `CodexBridge` | Bridge instance managing Codex CLI processes |
| `agentBridge` | `AgentBridge` | Bridge instance managing Cursor Agent processes |
| `sessionStore` | `SessionStore` | Persistence layer for session data |
| `usageReader` | `UsageReader` | Reads JSONL usage logs from `~/.claude/projects/` |
| `usageAnalytics` | `UsageAnalytics` | Calculates burn rate, predictions, plan limits |
| `selectedWorkingDir` | string \| null | Currently selected working directory via folder browser |
| `baseFolder` | string | `process.cwd()` at startup -- root for path validation |
| `isShuttingDown` | boolean | Prevents duplicate shutdown sequences |

---

## REST API Endpoints

### Public (pre-auth)

#### `GET /auth-status`
Returns whether authentication is required.

**Response:**
```json
{ "authRequired": true, "authenticated": false }
```

#### `POST /auth-verify`
Validates a token against the server's configured auth token.

**Request body:** `{ "token": "..." }`
**Success:** `{ "valid": true }`
**Failure (401):** `{ "valid": false, "error": "Invalid token" }`

### Protected (behind auth middleware when auth is enabled)

#### `GET /api/health`
Health check.

**Response:**
```json
{ "status": "ok", "claudeSessions": 3, "activeConnections": 2 }
```

#### `GET /api/sessions/list`
List all sessions with metadata.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "sessions": [
    {
      "id": "uuid",
      "name": "Session 2/5/2026, 10:30:00 AM",
      "created": "2026-02-05T10:30:00.000Z",
      "active": true,
      "workingDir": "/home/user/project",
      "connectedClients": 1,
      "lastActivity": "2026-02-05T11:00:00.000Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### `POST /api/sessions/create`
Create a new session.

**Request body:** `{ "name": "...", "workingDir": "/path" }`
- `workingDir` is validated against `baseFolder`.
- Falls back to `selectedWorkingDir` or `baseFolder` when omitted.

**Response:**
```json
{ "success": true, "sessionId": "uuid", "session": { "id": "...", "name": "...", "workingDir": "..." } }
```

#### `GET /api/sessions/:sessionId`
Get details of a single session.

**Response:** Session object with `id`, `name`, `created`, `active`, `workingDir`, `connectedClients`, `lastActivity`.

**404** when session ID is unknown.

#### `DELETE /api/sessions/:sessionId`
Delete a session. Stops the running agent process (if any), sends `session_deleted` to all connected WebSocket clients, and removes the session from the in-memory Map and disk persistence.

**Response:** `{ "success": true, "message": "Session deleted" }`

#### `GET /api/config`
Returns server configuration relevant to the client.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "folderMode": true,
  "selectedWorkingDir": "/home/user/project",
  "baseFolder": "/home/user",
  "aliases": { "claude": "Claude", "codex": "Codex", "agent": "Cursor" }
}
```

#### `GET /api/folders`
Browse directories within `baseFolder`.

**Query params:**
- `path` -- directory to list (default: `baseFolder`)
- `showHidden` -- `"true"` to include dotfiles

**Response:**
```json
{
  "currentPath": "/home/user/projects",
  "parentPath": "/home/user",
  "folders": [ { "name": "repo", "path": "/home/user/projects/repo", "isDirectory": true } ],
  "home": "/home/user",
  "baseFolder": "/home/user"
}
```

#### `POST /api/set-working-dir`
Set the server-wide working directory for new sessions.

**Request body:** `{ "path": "/absolute/path" }`
**Response:** `{ "success": true, "workingDir": "/absolute/path" }`

#### `POST /api/folders/select`
Alias for `POST /api/set-working-dir` with identical behavior.

#### `POST /api/create-folder`
Create a new directory inside an allowed parent.

**Request body:** `{ "parentPath": "/base/path", "folderName": "new-dir" }`
- `folderName` must not contain `/` or `\`.
- Both `parentPath` and resulting path are validated.

**Response:** `{ "success": true, "path": "/base/path/new-dir", "message": "..." }`

#### `POST /api/close-session`
Clears `selectedWorkingDir` back to `null`.

**Response:** `{ "success": true, "message": "Working directory cleared" }`

#### `GET /api/sessions/persistence`
Returns persistence metadata from `SessionStore.getSessionMetadata()`.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "exists": true,
  "savedAt": "2026-02-05T10:00:00.000Z",
  "sessionCount": 3,
  "fileSize": 4096,
  "version": "1.0",
  "currentSessions": 3,
  "autoSaveEnabled": true,
  "autoSaveInterval": 30000
}
```

#### `GET /`
Serves `src/public/index.html`.

---

## WebSocket

### Setup

The WebSocket server (`ws.Server`) is attached to the same HTTP(S) server instance. A `verifyClient` callback checks the `?token=` query parameter against `this.auth` when authentication is enabled.

### Connection Lifecycle

1. Client connects. Server assigns a `wsId` (UUID), stores it in `webSocketConnections`, and sends `{ type: "connected", connectionId: wsId }`.
2. If `?sessionId=` is present in the URL and the session exists, the server auto-joins that session.
3. On close or error, the connection is removed from `webSocketConnections` and its session's `connections` Set.

### Message Protocol

All messages are JSON. The `type` field determines the handler.

| Client Message | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| `create_session` | Create a new session and join it. Fields: `name`, `workingDir`. |
| `join_session` | Join an existing session. Fields: `sessionId`. Replays the last 200 lines of the output buffer. |
| `leave_session` | Disconnect from current session without stopping the agent. |
| `start_claude` | Launch Claude CLI in the current session. Fields: `options` (optional). Pre-checks tool availability. |
| `start_codex` | Launch Codex CLI in the current session. Fields: `options` (optional). Pre-checks tool availability. |
| `start_copilot` | Launch Copilot CLI in the current session. Fields: `options` (optional). Pre-checks tool availability. |
| `start_gemini` | Launch Gemini CLI in the current session. Fields: `options` (optional). Pre-checks tool availability. |
| `start_terminal` | Launch a terminal shell in the current session. Fields: `options` (optional). Pre-checks tool availability. |
| `input` | Send raw terminal input to the running agent. Fields: `data`. |
| `resize` | Resize the pty. Fields: `cols`, `rows`. |
| `stop` | Terminate the running agent process. |
| `ping` | Keep-alive. Server responds with `{ type: "pong" }`. |
| `get_usage` | Request usage statistics. Server responds with `usage_update`. |

| Server Message | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| `connected` | Initial connection acknowledgment with `connectionId`. |
| `session_created` | Session successfully created. Fields: `sessionId`, `sessionName`, `workingDir`. |
| `session_joined` | Joined an existing session. Fields: `sessionId`, `sessionName`, `workingDir`, `active`, `outputBuffer`. |
| `session_left` | Successfully left the session. |
| `session_deleted` | Session was deleted by another client or via REST API. |
| `claude_started` / `codex_started` / `agent_started` | Agent process launched. |
| `claude_stopped` / `codex_stopped` / `agent_stopped` | Agent process terminated. |
| `output` | Terminal output data from the agent. Fields: `data`. |
| `exit` | Agent process exited. Fields: `code`, `signal`. |
| `error` | Error message. Fields: `message`. |
| `info` | Informational message (e.g., "No agent is running"). |
| `pong` | Response to `ping`. |
| `usage_update` | Usage statistics payload (see Usage Analytics spec). |

### Broadcasting

`broadcastToSession(sessionId, data)` iterates the session's `connections` Set, verifies each WebSocket is open and belongs to the correct session, then sends the JSON-serialized message.

---

## Session Management

### In-Memory Session Object

```js
{
  id: 'uuid',
  name: 'Session 2/5/2026, 10:30:00 AM',
  created: Date,
  lastActivity: Date,
  active: false,                // true when an agent process is running
  agent: null,                  // 'claude' | 'codex' | 'agent' | null
  workingDir: '/path',
  connections: Set<wsId>,       // WebSocket connection IDs
  outputBuffer: [],             // Rolling buffer of terminal output strings
  maxBufferSize: 1000,          // Max items in outputBuffer
  sessionStartTime: Date|null,  // Set on first agent start
  sessionUsage: {               // Aggregated token/cost tracking
    requests: 0,
    inputTokens: 0,
    outputTokens: 0,
    cacheTokens: 0,
    totalCost: 0,
    models: {}
  }
}
```

### Auto-Save

Sessions are persisted to disk via `SessionStore` every 30 seconds (`setInterval`). The `saveSessionsToDisk()` method also fires:
- After session creation
- After session deletion
- On `beforeExit`
- During graceful shutdown

### Session Restoration

On startup, `loadPersistedSessions()` loads sessions from disk. All sessions are restored with `active: false` and empty `connections` Sets since pty processes do not survive restarts.

---

## Graceful Shutdown

Registered on `SIGINT` and `SIGTERM`. The `handleShutdown()` method:

1. Sets `isShuttingDown = true` to prevent re-entry.
2. Saves all sessions to disk.
3. Clears the auto-save interval.
4. Calls `close()` which:
   - Saves sessions again.
   - Closes the WebSocket server.
   - Closes the HTTP server.
   - Stops all active agent processes (routing to the correct bridge based on `session.agent`).
   - Clears `claudeSessions` and `webSocketConnections` Maps.
5. Calls `process.exit(0)`.

---

## Path Validation

Two methods enforce directory traversal prevention:

- **`isPathWithinBase(targetPath)`** -- Resolves `targetPath` and checks that it starts with the resolved `baseFolder`.
- **`validatePath(targetPath)`** -- Returns `{ valid: true, path: resolvedPath }` or `{ valid: false, error: '...' }`.

Every endpoint that accepts a filesystem path (`/api/folders`, `/api/set-working-dir`, `/api/create-folder`, `/api/sessions/create`, etc.) calls `validatePath()` before performing any I/O. The `baseFolder` is always `process.cwd()` at server startup time.

---

## Static Assets and PWA

- `express.static` serves `src/public/`.
- `manifest.json` is served with `Content-Type: application/manifest+json`.
- Dynamic SVG icons are generated at `/icon-{16,32,144,180,192,512}.png` with monospace "CC" text on a dark background, served as `image/svg+xml` with a 1-year cache header.

Commit message:

fix: resolve Windows stuck spinner when starting tools in second session
- Cache isAvailable() result with 60s TTL to prevent synchronous
  where.exe calls from blocking the event loop on every tool start
- Replace silent return with error message when session not found in
  startToolSession (was causing 45s stuck spinner with no feedback)
- Add diagnostic logging to all startToolSession decision points
- Include sessionId in session_left WebSocket message
- Harmonize REST session creation with WS creation (add missing fields)
- Resolve bare command names to full paths for node-pty compatibility
- Fix process.kill() to handle Windows where POSIX signals are unsupported
- Switch to @lydell/node-pty for prebuilt binaries (no native compilation)
- Resolve shell commands to full paths in TerminalBridge for Windows
- Add e2e tests for multi-session tool start from same WebSocket

docs/specs/server.md, after:

# Server Specification

Source: `src/server.js` -- class `ClaudeCodeWebServer`

## Constructor

```js
new ClaudeCodeWebServer(options)
```

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `port` | number | `7777` | HTTP/HTTPS listen port |
| `auth` | string | `undefined` | Bearer token for authentication; when set, all HTTP and WebSocket requests must provide it |
| `noAuth` | boolean | `false` | Disable authentication entirely (`--disable-auth`) |
| `dev` | boolean | `false` | Enable verbose console logging |
| `https` | boolean | `false` | Start an HTTPS server instead of HTTP |
| `cert` | string | -- | Path to PEM certificate file (required when `https` is true) |
| `key` | string | -- | Path to PEM private key file (required when `https` is true) |
| `folderMode` | boolean | `true` | Enable folder-selection UI (defaults to true; always enabled in current CLI) |
| `sessionHours` | number | `5` | Session window duration in hours; also read from `CLAUDE_SESSION_HOURS` env |
| `plan` | string | `'max20'` | Subscription plan type (`pro`, `max5`, `max20`, `custom`); also read from `CLAUDE_PLAN` env |
| `customCostLimit` | number | `50.00` | Dollar cost limit for custom plans; also read from `CLAUDE_COST_LIMIT` env |
| `claudeAlias` | string | `'Claude'` | UI display name for Claude agent; also read from `CLAUDE_ALIAS` env |
| `codexAlias` | string | `'Codex'` | UI display name for Codex agent; also read from `CODEX_ALIAS` env |
| `agentAlias` | string | `'Cursor'` | UI display name for the third agent; also read from `AGENT_ALIAS` env |

### Internal State

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `claudeSessions` | `Map<string, Session>` | All sessions keyed by UUID |
| `webSocketConnections` | `Map<string, WsInfo>` | Active WebSocket connections keyed by UUID |
| `claudeBridge` | `ClaudeBridge` | Bridge instance managing Claude CLI processes |
| `codexBridge` | `CodexBridge` | Bridge instance managing Codex CLI processes |
| `agentBridge` | `AgentBridge` | Bridge instance managing Cursor Agent processes |
| `sessionStore` | `SessionStore` | Persistence layer for session data |
| `usageReader` | `UsageReader` | Reads JSONL usage logs from `~/.claude/projects/` |
| `usageAnalytics` | `UsageAnalytics` | Calculates burn rate, predictions, plan limits |
| `selectedWorkingDir` | string \| null | Currently selected working directory via folder browser |
| `baseFolder` | string | `process.cwd()` at startup -- root for path validation |
| `isShuttingDown` | boolean | Prevents duplicate shutdown sequences |

---

## REST API Endpoints

### Public (pre-auth)

#### `GET /auth-status`
Returns whether authentication is required.

**Response:**
```json
{ "authRequired": true, "authenticated": false }
```

#### `POST /auth-verify`
Validates a token against the server's configured auth token.

**Request body:** `{ "token": "..." }`
**Success:** `{ "valid": true }`
**Failure (401):** `{ "valid": false, "error": "Invalid token" }`

### Protected (behind auth middleware when auth is enabled)

#### `GET /api/health`
Health check.

**Response:**
```json
{ "status": "ok", "claudeSessions": 3, "activeConnections": 2 }
```

#### `GET /api/sessions/list`
List all sessions with metadata.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "sessions": [
    {
      "id": "uuid",
      "name": "Session 2/5/2026, 10:30:00 AM",
      "created": "2026-02-05T10:30:00.000Z",
      "active": true,
      "workingDir": "/home/user/project",
      "connectedClients": 1,
      "lastActivity": "2026-02-05T11:00:00.000Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### `POST /api/sessions/create`
Create a new session.

**Request body:** `{ "name": "...", "workingDir": "/path" }`
- `workingDir` is validated against `baseFolder`.
- Falls back to `selectedWorkingDir` or `baseFolder` when omitted.

**Response:**
```json
{ "success": true, "sessionId": "uuid", "session": { "id": "...", "name": "...", "workingDir": "..." } }
```

#### `GET /api/sessions/:sessionId`
Get details of a single session.

**Response:** Session object with `id`, `name`, `created`, `active`, `workingDir`, `connectedClients`, `lastActivity`.

**404** when session ID is unknown.

#### `DELETE /api/sessions/:sessionId`
Delete a session. Stops the running agent process (if any), sends `session_deleted` to all connected WebSocket clients, and removes the session from the in-memory Map and disk persistence.

**Response:** `{ "success": true, "message": "Session deleted" }`

#### `GET /api/config`
Returns server configuration relevant to the client.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "folderMode": true,
  "selectedWorkingDir": "/home/user/project",
  "baseFolder": "/home/user",
  "aliases": { "claude": "Claude", "codex": "Codex", "agent": "Cursor" }
}
```

#### `GET /api/folders`
Browse directories within `baseFolder`.

**Query params:**
- `path` -- directory to list (default: `baseFolder`)
- `showHidden` -- `"true"` to include dotfiles

**Response:**
```json
{
  "currentPath": "/home/user/projects",
  "parentPath": "/home/user",
  "folders": [ { "name": "repo", "path": "/home/user/projects/repo", "isDirectory": true } ],
  "home": "/home/user",
  "baseFolder": "/home/user"
}
```

#### `POST /api/set-working-dir`
Set the server-wide working directory for new sessions.

**Request body:** `{ "path": "/absolute/path" }`
**Response:** `{ "success": true, "workingDir": "/absolute/path" }`

#### `POST /api/folders/select`
Alias for `POST /api/set-working-dir` with identical behavior.

#### `POST /api/create-folder`
Create a new directory inside an allowed parent.

**Request body:** `{ "parentPath": "/base/path", "folderName": "new-dir" }`
- `folderName` must not contain `/` or `\`.
- Both `parentPath` and resulting path are validated.

**Response:** `{ "success": true, "path": "/base/path/new-dir", "message": "..." }`

#### `POST /api/close-session`
Clears `selectedWorkingDir` back to `null`.

**Response:** `{ "success": true, "message": "Working directory cleared" }`

#### `GET /api/sessions/persistence`
Returns persistence metadata from `SessionStore.getSessionMetadata()`.

**Response:**
```json
{
  "exists": true,
  "savedAt": "2026-02-05T10:00:00.000Z",
  "sessionCount": 3,
  "fileSize": 4096,
  "version": "1.0",
  "currentSessions": 3,
  "autoSaveEnabled": true,
  "autoSaveInterval": 30000
}
```

#### `GET /`
Serves `src/public/index.html`.

---

## WebSocket

### Setup

The WebSocket server (`ws.Server`) is attached to the same HTTP(S) server instance. A `verifyClient` callback checks the `?token=` query parameter against `this.auth` when authentication is enabled.

### Connection Lifecycle

1. Client connects. Server assigns a `wsId` (UUID), stores it in `webSocketConnections`, and sends `{ type: "connected", connectionId: wsId }`.
2. If `?sessionId=` is present in the URL and the session exists, the server auto-joins that session.
3. On close or error, the connection is removed from `webSocketConnections` and its session's `connections` Set.

### Message Protocol

All messages are JSON. The `type` field determines the handler.

| Client Message | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| `create_session` | Create a new session and join it. Fields: `name`, `workingDir`. |
| `join_session` | Join an existing session. Fields: `sessionId`. Replays the last 200 lines of the output buffer. |
| `leave_session` | Disconnect from current session without stopping the agent. |
| `start_claude` | Launch Claude CLI in the current session. Fields: `options` (optional). Pre-checks tool availability. |
| `start_codex` | Launch Codex CLI in the current session. Fields: `options` (optional). Pre-checks tool availability. |
| `start_copilot` | Launch Copilot CLI in the current session. Fields: `options` (optional). Pre-checks tool availability. |
| `start_gemini` | Launch Gemini CLI in the current session. Fields: `options` (optional). Pre-checks tool availability. |
| `start_terminal` | Launch a terminal shell in the current session. Fields: `options` (optional). Pre-checks tool availability. |

**`start_*` Error Handling**: All tool start messages go through `startToolSession`, which sends an `error` message for every failure path:

| Condition | Error message |
|-----------|--------------|
| No session joined | "No session joined. Please create or join a session first." |
| Session not in map | "Session not found. It may have been deleted. Please create a new session." |
| Agent already running | "An agent is already running in this session" |
| Tool not available | "{tool} is not available. Please ensure the {tool} CLI is installed..." |
| Spawn failure | "Failed to start {tool}: {error}" |

| `input` | Send raw terminal input to the running agent. Fields: `data`. |
| `resize` | Resize the pty. Fields: `cols`, `rows`. |
| `stop` | Terminate the running agent process. |
| `ping` | Keep-alive. Server responds with `{ type: "pong" }`. |
| `get_usage` | Request usage statistics. Server responds with `usage_update`. |

| Server Message | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| `connected` | Initial connection acknowledgment with `connectionId`. |
| `session_created` | Session successfully created. Fields: `sessionId`, `sessionName`, `workingDir`. |
| `session_joined` | Joined an existing session. Fields: `sessionId`, `sessionName`, `workingDir`, `active`, `outputBuffer`. |
| `session_left` | Successfully left the session. Fields: `sessionId`. |
| `session_deleted` | Session was deleted by another client or via REST API. |
| `claude_started` / `codex_started` / `agent_started` | Agent process launched. |
| `claude_stopped` / `codex_stopped` / `agent_stopped` | Agent process terminated. |
| `output` | Terminal output data from the agent. Fields: `data`. |
| `exit` | Agent process exited. Fields: `code`, `signal`. |
| `error` | Error message. Fields: `message`. |
| `info` | Informational message (e.g., "No agent is running"). |
| `pong` | Response to `ping`. |
| `usage_update` | Usage statistics payload (see Usage Analytics spec). |

### Broadcasting

`broadcastToSession(sessionId, data)` iterates the session's `connections` Set, verifies each WebSocket is open and belongs to the correct session, then sends the JSON-serialized message.

---

## Session Management

### In-Memory Session Object

```js
{
  id: 'uuid',
  name: 'Session 2/5/2026, 10:30:00 AM',
  created: Date,
  lastActivity: Date,
  active: false,                // true when an agent process is running
  agent: null,                  // 'claude' | 'codex' | 'agent' | null
  workingDir: '/path',
  connections: Set<wsId>,       // WebSocket connection IDs
  outputBuffer: [],             // Rolling buffer of terminal output strings
  maxBufferSize: 1000,          // Max items in outputBuffer
  sessionStartTime: Date|null,  // Set on first agent start
  sessionUsage: {               // Aggregated token/cost tracking
    requests: 0,
    inputTokens: 0,
    outputTokens: 0,
    cacheTokens: 0,
    totalCost: 0,
    models: {}
  }
}
```

### Auto-Save

Sessions are persisted to disk via `SessionStore` every 30 seconds (`setInterval`). The `saveSessionsToDisk()` method also fires:
- After session creation
- After session deletion
- On `beforeExit`
- During graceful shutdown

### Session Restoration

On startup, `loadPersistedSessions()` loads sessions from disk. All sessions are restored with `active: false` and empty `connections` Sets since pty processes do not survive restarts.

---

## Graceful Shutdown

Registered on `SIGINT` and `SIGTERM`. The `handleShutdown()` method:

1. Sets `isShuttingDown = true` to prevent re-entry.
2. Saves all sessions to disk.
3. Clears the auto-save interval.
4. Calls `close()` which:
   - Saves sessions again.
   - Closes the WebSocket server.
   - Closes the HTTP server.
   - Stops all active agent processes (routing to the correct bridge based on `session.agent`).
   - Clears `claudeSessions` and `webSocketConnections` Maps.
5. Calls `process.exit(0)`.

---

## Path Validation

Two methods enforce directory traversal prevention:

- **`isPathWithinBase(targetPath)`** -- Resolves `targetPath` and checks that it starts with the resolved `baseFolder`.
- **`validatePath(targetPath)`** -- Returns `{ valid: true, path: resolvedPath }` or `{ valid: false, error: '...' }`.

Every endpoint that accepts a filesystem path (`/api/folders`, `/api/set-working-dir`, `/api/create-folder`, `/api/sessions/create`, etc.) calls `validatePath()` before performing any I/O. The `baseFolder` is always `process.cwd()` at server startup time.

---

## Static Assets and PWA

- `express.static` serves `src/public/`.
- `manifest.json` is served with `Content-Type: application/manifest+json`.
- Dynamic SVG icons are generated at `/icon-{16,32,144,180,192,512}.png` with monospace "CC" text on a dark background, served as `image/svg+xml` with a 1-year cache header.
